---
project: exceed
stars: 30
description: A high-level stream-oriented Excel (.xlsx) generator
url: https://github.com/synchronal/exceed
---

Exceed
======

`Exceed` is a high-level stream-oriented library for generating Excel files, useful when generating spreadsheets from data sets large enough that they may exceed available memory—or the available memory that one wants to dedicate to building spreadsheets.

Sponsorship 💕
--------------

This library is part of the Synchronal suite of libraries and tools which includes more than 15 open source Elixir libraries as well as some Rust libraries and tools.

You can support our open source work by sponsoring us. If you have specific features in mind, bugs you'd like fixed, or new libraries you'd like to see, file an issue or contact us at contact@reflective.dev.

Installation
------------

def deps do
  \[
    {:exceed, "~> 0.6"}
  \]
end

Why a duck?
-----------

XLSX files are zip files containing numerous XML files following `SpreadsheetML` OpenXML schemas. `High-level libraries` already exist to generate XLSX files from Elixir, but do not handle streams—all content to be written to a spreadsheet must be held in memory until the spreadsheet is fully written.

`Low-level libraries` already exist to generate XLSX files from streams, but are so low level that one must know all the ins and outs of SpreasheetML, including positional ordering of files, tags, and attributes.

We wanted a library that hides the complexity of streaming to XML to zlib, and hides the complexity of OOXML.

Usage
-----

XLSX streams are generated by initializing a workbook (with a creator name), adding worksheets, and then converting that to a stream.

stream \=
  Exceed.Workbook.new("Creator Name")
  |> Exceed.Workbook.add\_worksheet(
    Exceed.Worksheet.new("Sheet Name", \["Heading 1", "Heading 2"\],
      \[\["Row 1 Cell 1", "Row 1 Cell 2"\], \["Row 2 Cell 1", "Row 2 Cell 2"\]\])
  )
  |> Exceed.stream!()

stream
|> Stream.into(File.stream!("/tmp/workbook.xslx"))
|> Stream.run()

Worksheets may be initialized with lists of lists, or they may be initialized with a stream of data that maps to a list of cells.

rows \=
  Stream.unfold(1, fn
    10\_001 \-> nil
    row\_count \-> {\["Row #{row\_count} Cell 1", "Row #{row\_count} Cell 2"\], row\_count + 1}
  end)

Exceed.Worksheet.new("Sheet Name", \["Heading 1", "Heading 2"\], rows)

Alternatives & References
-------------------------

This library is inspired by and learns from other great libraries. One might choose to use one of those in place of `Exceed`:

-   `elixlsx` - Provides fine-grained control over cells, but is not stream-oriented and thus requires that all source data and rows be retained in memory until the entire workbook is written.
-   `xlsx_stream` - Provides low-level constructs that may be combined to make an Excel file. Works nicely with streams. Requires that one know all the ins and outs of `SpreadsheetML` in order to make a valid file that Excel can parse.

Contributing
------------

This library uses `medic` for its development workflow.

brew bundle

bin/dev/doctor
bin/dev/test
bin/dev/audit
bin/dev/update
bin/dev/shipit

If one does not want to install extra tooling but wishes to contribute code fixes, new features, or documentation, please verify that code is formatted with the versions of Elixir and Erlang specified in `.tool-versions`, passes all tests, and passes strict credo and dialyzer.

Benchmarks
----------

At time of writing, benchmarks indicate that Exceed performs at 30% to 40% the speed of non-streaming libraries such as Elixlsx. Ideas and PRs to improve the performance of file generation are very welcome!

# 10 columns, 100\_000 rows
MIX\_ENV=benchmark mix run -r benchmark/exceed.exs -e "Benchmark.run()"
# 20 columns, 1\_000\_000 rows
MIX\_ENV=benchmark mix run -r benchmark/exceed.exs -e "Benchmark.run(\[\], 20, 1\_000\_000)"
# pass options to \`Exceed.File.file/3\`
MIX\_ENV=benchmark mix run -r benchmark/exceed.exs -e "Benchmark.run(\[buffer: false\], 20, 1\_000\_000)"

# 10 columns, 100\_000 rows
MIX\_ENV=benchmark mix run -r benchmark/elixlsx.exs -e "Benchmark.run()"
# 20 columns, 1\_000\_000 rows
MIX\_ENV=benchmark mix run -r benchmark/elixlsx.exs -e "Benchmark.run(\[\], 20, 1\_000\_000)"
