---
project: waffle
stars: 815
description: Flexible file upload and attachment library for Elixir
url: https://github.com/elixir-waffle/waffle
---

Waffle
======

Waffle is a flexible file upload library for Elixir with straightforward integrations for Amazon S3 and ImageMagick.

Documentation

* * *

Already using Waffle in your org? I'd love to learn more, let's have a chat or just send me an email

* * *

Installation
------------

Add the latest stable release to your `mix.exs` file, along with the required dependencies for `ExAws` if appropriate:

defp deps do
  \[
    {:waffle, "~> 1.1"},

    \# If using S3:
    {:ex\_aws, "~> 2.1.2"},
    {:ex\_aws\_s3, "~> 2.0"},
    {:hackney, "~> 1.9"},
    {:sweet\_xml, "~> 0.6"}
  \]
end

Then run `mix deps.get` in your shell to fetch the dependencies.

Usage
-----

After installing Waffle, another two things should be done:

1.  setup a storage provider
2.  define a definition module

### Setup a storage provider

Waffle has two built-in storage providers:

-   `Waffle.Storage.Local`
-   `Waffle.Storage.S3`

Other available storage providers are supported by the community.

An example for setting up `Waffle.Storage.Local`:

config :waffle,
  storage: Waffle.Storage.Local,
  asset\_host: "http://static.example.com" \# or {:system, "ASSET\_HOST"}

An example for setting up `Waffle.Storage.S3`:

config :waffle,
  storage: Waffle.Storage.S3,
  bucket: "custom\_bucket",                \# or {:system, "AWS\_S3\_BUCKET"}
  asset\_host: "http://static.example.com" \# or {:system, "ASSET\_HOST"}

config :ex\_aws,
  json\_codec: Jason
  \# any configurations provided by https://github.com/ex-aws/ex\_aws

### Define a definition module

Waffle requires a **definition module** which contains the relevant functions to store and retrieve files:

-   Optional transformations of the uploaded file
-   Where to put your files (the storage directory)
-   How to name your files
-   How to secure your files (private? Or publicly accessible?)
-   Default placeholders

This module can be created manually or generated by `mix waffle.g` automatically.

As an example, we will generate a definition module for handling avatars:

```
mix waffle.g avatar
```

This should generate a file at `lib/[APP_NAME]_web/uploaders/avatar.ex`. Check this file for descriptions of configurable options.

Examples
--------

-   An example for Local storage driver
-   An example for S3 storage driver

Usage with Ecto
---------------

Waffle comes with a companion package for use with Ecto. If you intend to use Waffle with Ecto, it is highly recommended you also add the `waffle_ecto` dependency. Benefits include:

-   Changeset integration
-   Versioned urls for cache busting (`.../thumb.png?v=63601457477`)

Other Storage Providers
-----------------------

-   **Rackspace** - arc\_rackspace
    
-   **Manta** - arc\_manta
    
-   **OVH** - arc\_ovh
    
-   **Google Cloud Storage** - waffle\_gcs
    
-   **Microsoft Azure Storage** - arc\_azure
    
-   **Aliyun OSS Storage** - waffle\_aliyun\_oss
    

Testing
-------

The basic test suite can be run with without supplying any S3 information:

```
mix test
```

In order to test S3 capability, you must have access to an S3/equivalent bucket. For S3 buckets, the bucket must be configured to allow ACLs and it must allow public access.

The following environment variables will be used by the test suite:

-   WAFFLE\_TEST\_BUCKET
-   WAFFLE\_TEST\_BUCKET2
-   WAFFLE\_TEST\_S3\_KEY
-   WAFFLE\_TEST\_S3\_SECRET
-   WAFFLE\_TEST\_REGION

After setting these variables, you can run the full test suite with `mix test --include s3:true`.

Attribution
-----------

Great thanks to Sean Stavropoulos (@stavro) for the original awesome work on the library.

This project is forked from Arc from the version `v0.11.0`.

License
-------

Copyright 2019 Boris Kuznetsov me@achempion.com

Copyright 2015 Sean Stavropoulos

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

```
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
```

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
