---
project: aws-elixir
stars: 586
description: AWS clients for Elixir
url: https://github.com/aws-beam/aws-elixir
---

AWS clients for Elixir
======================

🌳 With this library you can have access to almost all AWS services without hassle. ⚡

Features
--------

-   A clean API separated per service. Each module has a corresponding service.
-   Support for most of AWS services.
-   Configurable HTTP client and JSON parser.
-   Generated by aws-codegen using the same JSON descriptions of AWS services used to build the AWS SDK for Go V2.
-   Documentation is updated from the official AWS docs.

Usage
-----

Here is an example of listing Amazon Kinesis streams. First you need to start a console with `iex -S mix`.

After that, type the following:

iex\> client \= AWS.Client.create("your-access-key-id", "your-secret-access-key", "us-east-1")
iex\> {:ok, result, resp} \= AWS.Kinesis.list\_streams(client, %{})
iex\> IO.inspect(result)
%{"HasMoreStreams" \=> false, "StreamNames" \=> \[\]}

If you are using `AWS.S3`, you can upload a file with integrity check by doing:

iex\> client \= AWS.Client.create("your-access-key-id", "your-secret-access-key", "us-east-1")
iex\> file \= File.read!("./tmp/your-file.txt")
iex\> md5 \= :crypto.hash(:md5, file) |> Base.encode64()
iex\> AWS.S3.put\_object(client, "your-bucket-name", "foo/your-file-on-s3.txt",
  %{"Body" \=> file, "ContentMD5" \=> md5})

Note that you may need to specify the `ContentType` attribute when calling `AWS.S3.put_object/4`. This is because S3 will use that to store the file's MIME type.

You can also upload to S3 as multipart. If you're facing timeout issues, this strategy is recommended:

client \= AWS.Client.create("your-access-key-id", "your-secret-access-key", "us-east-1")
bucket \= "your-bucket-name"
filename \= "./your-big-file.wav"
\# AWS minimum chunk size is 5MB
chunk\_size \= 5\_242\_880

\# Create the multipart request
{:ok,
 %{
   "InitiateMultipartUploadResult" \=> %{
     "UploadId" \=> upload\_id
   }
 }, \_} \= AWS.S3.create\_multipart\_upload(client, bucket, filename, %{})

file \= File.read!(filename)

\# Send the file's binary in parts
parts \=
  file
  |> String.codepoints()
  |> Stream.chunk\_every(chunk\_size)
  |> Stream.with\_index(1)
  |> Enum.map(fn {chunk, i} \->
    chunk \= Enum.join(chunk)

    {:ok, nil, %{headers: headers, status\_code: 200}} \=
      AWS.S3.upload\_part(client, bucket, filename, %{
        "Body" \=> chunk,
        "PartNumber" \=> i,
        "UploadId" \=> upload\_id
      })

    {\_, etag} \= Enum.find(headers, fn {header, \_} \-> header \== "ETag" end)

    %{"ETag" \=> etag, "PartNumber" \=> i}
  end)

input \= %{"CompleteMultipartUpload" \=> %{"Part" \=> parts}, "UploadId" \=> upload\_id}

\# Complete the multipart request
AWS.S3.complete\_multipart\_upload(aws\_client, bucket, filename, input)

You can also list objects in a bucket:

\# create the client just like the example above
iex\> AWS.S3.list\_objects\_v2(client, "bucket-name-here")

And download a specific object:

\# create the client just like the example above
\# object key is the "file path" in the S3 bucket
iex\> AWS.S3.get\_object(client, "bucket-name-here", "object-key-here")

Check all S3 related functions in the docs here.

Remember to check the operation documentation for details: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/

Installation
------------

Add `:aws` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`. It also requires hackney for the default HTTP client. Optionally, you can implement your own (Check `AWS.Client` docs).

def deps do
  \[
    {:aws, "~> 1.0.0"},
    {:hackney, "~> 1.18"}
  \]
end

Run `mix deps.get` to install.

Development
-----------

Most of the code is generated using the aws-codegen library from the JSON descriptions of AWS services provided by Amazon. They can be found in `lib/aws/generated`.

Code outside `lib/aws/generated` is manually written and used as support for the generated code.

Documentation
-------------

Online

-   Hex Docs

Local

-   Run `mix docs`
-   Open `docs/index.html`

**Note:** Arguments, errors and response structure can be found by viewing the model schemas used to generate this module at `aws-sdk-go/models/apis/<aws-service>/<version>/`.

An example is `aws-sdk-go/models/apis/rekognition/2016-06-27/api-2.json`. Alternatively you can access the documentation for the service you want at AWS docs page.

Tests
-----

```
$ mix test
```

Release
-------

-   Make sure the `CHANGELOG.md` is up-to-date and reflects the changes for the new version.
-   Bump the version here in the `README.md` and in `mix.exs`.
-   Run `git tag v$VERSION` to tag the version that was just published.
-   Run `git push --tags origin master` to push tags to Github.
-   Run `mix hex.publish` to publish the new version.

Copyright & License
-------------------

Copyright (c) 2015 Jamshed Kakar jkakar@kakar.ca

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
